# Search Engine - Information Retrieval (IR)
# Title
ML- Search Engine (Information Retrieval)

# Introduction
The method of acquiring information system resources that are important to an information require from a set of those resources is known as information retrieval (IR). Full-text or other content-based indexing may be used to conduct searches. The science of finding information in a document, finding for documents itself, as well as finding for metadata that identifies data and databases of texts, images, or sounds, is known as information retrieval.

An information retrieval system is a software application that allows users to access books, journals, and other records, as well as store and maintain them. The much more noticeable IR applications are web search engines.The system aids customers in locating the details they need, but it does not definitively restore the necessary answers to their queries. It informs the existence and location about repositories which may contain the required data. Related reports are archives that meet a client's requirements. Only important documents can be recovered by a perfect IR system. Information retrieval could be done on the internet, inside messages, on a personal computer, or from a union's data base. The advent of the internet and subsequent web - based life in the mid-to-late 1990s gave rise to a massive amount of unstructured data getting exchanged and shared on a daily basis on the internet. As a result, a good Information Retrieval framework became important Search Engine. For examples: Common search engines include Google, Bing, and Yahoo, while specialty search engines include Web of Science, Google Scholar, DBLP and others.
